Python dates (#303)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/dates/dates.md

---
Title: 'Dates'
Description: 'The built-in Python module called datetime is used to create and modify dates and times.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Date'
  - 'Time'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

Python doesn't have a data type for datetime but there's a built-in module called [datetime](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html) that can be used to create and modify datetime objects.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The module comes built in with python so installation is not required but we need to import it at top of Python file as below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The module comes built-in with Python so installation is not required, but we do need to import it at top of a Python file as below:
```

```py
import datetime
```

> For example `.datetime.now()` method will return the current date and time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A basic example is employing the `.datetime.now()` method to return the current date and time:
```

```codebyte/py
import datetime

current_datetime = datetime.datetime.now()

print(current_datetime)
```

The result will be the current date and time as below:

`2021-10-05 10:20:57.944968`

> It contains year,month,day,hour,minute,second and microsecond.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It contains the year, month, day, hour, minute, second and microsecond.
```

## Creating new datetime object

> `datetime` module have three main available types i.e `date` , `time` and `datetime`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `datetime` module has three main available types: `date` , `time` and `datetime`.
```

```codebyte/py
import datetime

date_object = datetime.date(2021,10,5)
# Creates date object with year=2021, month=10 and day=5

time_object = datetime.time(10,5,31)
# Creates time object with  hour=10,minute=5 and seconds=31

datetime_object=datetime.datetime(2021,10,5,10,5,31)

> # Create datetime object with year=2021, month=10, day=5,hour=10,minute=5 and second=31

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Creates datetime object with year=2021, month=10, day=5, hour=10, minute=5 and second=31
```

```

> Further more we also have a timedelta type which is used to represent time difference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, we also have a timedelta type which is used to represent time difference.
```

`timedelta(days, seconds, microseconds, milliseconds, minutes, hours, weeks)`

> All arguments are optional and have default value of 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that all of the arguments are optional and have default value of 0.
```

> ## Operations on datetime object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Operations on a datetime Object
```

> We can perform different operation on a datetime object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can perform different operations on a datetime object.
```

For example: If you want to add 2 months to a current date , it can be done as below

```codebyte/py
import datetime

current_date = datetime.datetime.now()
#Get current datetime

date_after_two_months = current_date + datetime.timedelta(days=30*2)

print(date_after_two_months)

> # Displays date 2 months from current date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Displays date 2 months from current date
```

```

> Date and time difference can be calculated using difference operation in `datetime` module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Date and time difference can be calculated using the difference or subtraction operator on `datetime` objects.
```

```codebyte/py
import datetime

current_date = datetime.datetime.now()

> #Get current datetime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#Get current datetime
```

---
Title: 'Dates'

> 

Reviewer 2: Delete extra newline.

> Description: 'Python does not have any data types for date and time but we can work with date and time in python using "datetime" module. It comes built in with python so we do not have to install it but it needs to be imported using "import datetime" statement. It can be used to create & modify datetime objects or to get current datetime. For example .datetime.now() method will return the current date and time.'

Reviewer 2: ```
Description: 'The built-in Python module called datetime is used to create and modify dates and times.'
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Delete extra newline.

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'

> 

Reviewer 2: Delete extra newline.

Tags:
  - 'Date'
  - 'Time'

> 

Reviewer 2: Delete extra newline.

CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> Python doesn't have a data type for datetime but there is built in module called [datetime](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html) that can be used to create and modify datetime objects.

Reviewer 2: There's a built-in module called [datetime](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html) that can be used to create and modify `datetime` objects.

The module comes built in with python so installation is not required but we need to import it at top of Python file as below:

```py
import datetime
```

For example `.datetime.now()` method will return the current date and time.

```codebyte/py
import datetime

current_datetime = datetime.datetime.now()

print(current_datetime)
```

> The result will be the current date and time as below :

Reviewer 2: Delete extra space before the `:`

`2021-10-05 10:20:57.944968`

It contains year,month,day,hour,minute,second and microsecond.

## Creating new datetime object

`datetime` module have three main available types i.e `date` , `time` and `datetime`.

```codebyte/py
import datetime

date_object = datetime.date(2021,10,5)
# Creates date object with year=2021, month=10 and day=5

time_object = datetime.time(10,5,31)
# Creates time object with  hour=10,minute=5 and seconds=31

datetime_object=datetime.datetime(2021,10,5,10,5,31)
# Create datetime object with year=2021, month=10, day=5,hour=10,minute=5 and second=31

> 

Reviewer 2: Delete extra line.

```

Further more we also have a timedelta type which is used to represent time difference.
`timedelta(days, seconds, microseconds, milliseconds, minutes, hours, weeks)`
All arguments are optional and have default value of 0.

## Operations on datetime object

We can perform different operation on a datetime object.
For example: If you want to add 2 months to a current date , it can be done as below

```codebyte/py
import datetime

current_date = datetime.datetime.now()

> #get current datetime

Reviewer 2: ```
# Get current datetime
```

date_after_two_months = current_date + datetime.timedelta(days=30*2)

print(date_after_two_months)
# Displays date 2 months from current date.

> 

Reviewer 2: Delete extra line.

```

Date and time difference can be calculated using difference operation in `datetime` module.

```codebyte/py
import datetime

current_date = datetime.datetime.now()

> #get current datetime

Reviewer 2: ```
# Get current datetime
```
